So in the last lecture, we set up some basic code to interact with the DOM,
now let's do that and let's start displaying the camera.
Now first of all, I can check if we have media devices in the navigator. Media devices is the API
which gives us access to the device camera, also to the microphone by the way,
so all the media input
a device can generate
and that typically is audio or video, video includes images.
So this is the first thing and if we do support this, everything's fine
but let's check the opposite, that we don't have it in the navigator. In this case, we can kind of create
our own polyfill to extend the support a bit.
Now before we do that, let's check the general support. If we access the media devices page on MDN and scroll
down,
we see that the support isn't that great, on mobile it's super bad.
However it's one specific method that's interesting to us and that's get user media.
Now if we visit that sub-page and that's the command we will use and we scroll to the bottom there to
have a look at the browser support, we see it's OK in Chrome, Firefox and Edge, not supported in Safari, on
mobile it's ok though,
also Chrome supports it, not the very old versions but definitely the more later versions,
so we can use it but there is no super broad support.
Now there actually is an old method or there are some old methods some browsers implement and that's
exactly what I want to leverage here.
So we know that a given browser doesn't support media devices, we can in this case create our own media devices
object on the navigator,
that's Javascript,
we can simply add a property.
Keep in mind this property doesn't exist here because we check that first, so it doesn't exist,
now we add it and we set it equal to an empty object.
Now with that done, we have an empty object, doesn't do too much, right?
So what we'll next do is, we'll fill this object with some life.
Now as a next step,
I'll add another if statement and check if navigator media devices and this will never fail because
even browsers which don't support it natively now have at least an empty object, if that has the get user
media property.
So I'll say get user media is that in this media devices object.
Now you might say what a dumb question
and there's a typo,
what a dumb question of course it isn't in there,
it's an empty object.
Yes that's the one we create for browsers which don't have media devices but of course this check here
doesn't have to fail,
for example in the latest versions of Chrome, we will have media devices in the navigator.
So now we reach this and we checked the next thing, we have
media devices,
do we have get user media?
And if
this is true, we won't enter this if statement, if it's false though and it will be false
for this set up here of course, we can now implement our own solution, taking advantage of older camera
access implementations we used in the past.
So here we can then initialize navigator media devices which will exist on every navigator since we
add it here and add our own get user media function eventually.
So that is a function and the function takes some constraints as input. Constraint basically will
be
is it audio or is it video which we want to capture?
This is basically rebuilding the native get user media function
modern browsers have anyways.
Now you might be scratching your head and saying that's nice,
how are we now coding the whole camera access thing from scratch?
The answer is No.
Actually some older or other browsers have their own native implementations which pretty much do the
same and we can bind them to this modern syntax so that in the rest of our application, we can only use
that modern syntax.
So I'll create a new variable which I'll name get user media, so this is not interfering with this property
on a media devices and this variable now holds
navigator webkit get user media which is Safari's implementation.
You notice Safari doesn't support get user media, here, doesn't support it but it has its own
implementation which it of course supports. So now we're binding this custom implementation to get user media
or if that's undefined because maybe we are not using a web browser,
we're not using Safari,
maybe we're using Mozilla and there conveniently, we have must get user media.
So now we try to bind either of the two hoping that we have a browser,
if it doesn't support the modern syntax, it at least has its own implementation
we can now bind to get user media here.
Now with that set up, we can check if get user media is not true,
so basically if this is undefined, we only get undefined here or null,
so if this only returns true, so it's not set. If we neither can get access to webkit,
user media normal Mozilla because either we're using another browser,
maybe Internet Explorer, an older version which doesn't support get user media or we use as a Safari
browser but just an older version too.
So in this case, all hope is lost and all we can do is return a promise, why a promise? Because we want
to rebuild this behavior,
keep in mind we're still in that function, get user media, that get user media returns a promise because
the modern get user media will,
so our own custom implementation also has to
and if we just can't get it to work, then this promise will simply reject.
So here we return a promise which immediately rejects,
that's just a shortcut and there we can throw a new error where we say get user
media is not implemented and it will be in our duty to later handle this error and provide a fallback.
If we make it past this if statement here
though, we know we got get user media,
now we have our own get user media function here which we can use.
So here we also return a new promise because again, get user media, the modern implementation returns one,
so our custom one should do so
too, this promise will resolve or reject
and actually it of course will resolve.
We call get user media,
so our variable which stores this native implementation of the individual browsers, either of webkit or
Mozilla
and I use the Javascript call method to basically alter the way this will be called.
I'll call it on the navigator by passing navigator in there, so that this inside get user media refers
to the navigator. I'll pass the constraints as arguments and resolve and reject,
so that in the end whenever we call get user media here on media devices, we call that function and
in that function in the end, we return a promise which will automatically resolve the result of get user media
which is this custom implementation of either webkit or Mozilla.
And just keep in mind, we only do this if we're on a browser which doesn't have the modern,
the nowadays
valid implementation of media devices.
So that was a lot of code to create this own polyfill,
so our general fallback code for browsers which don't support the modern syntax of get user media. In the
next lecture, we'll now use this or the modern syntax because we use the same name, so we don't care from
this point on and we'll actually get access to the camera, or not, in which case we'll display a fallback,
our image picker.